# i-MSCP 1.3.x -- Errata

## Update to version 1.3.0

First, if you're updating from a version older than 1.2.3, you must read the 1.2.x errata file. You can find that file
in the ./docs directory of the i-MSCP archive.

### Autologin feature

The autologin feature that permitted the customers to connect to PhpMyAdmin and Pydio without entering their identifants
has been removed. Indeed, a requirement for that feature was the cleartext passwords which were removed (see below).

### Passwords

All passwords stored by i-MSCP are now hashed using a specific encryption algorithm. Passwords are no longer stored in
cleartext for safety reasons. See below for more details about changes.

#### Database password (SQL root user password)

Because i-MSCP now uses the AES (Rijndael) algorithm in CBC mode to encrypt data (was Blowfish in CBC mode previously),
the database keys file will be automatically regenerated and you'll be asked again for the SQL data.

#### E-mail user passwords

E-mail user password are now hashed using the SHA512-crypt algorithm. We've choosen SHA512-crypt because this algorithm
is supported by all, Cyrus SASL, Dovecot and Courier. Bcryt would have been a better choice but unfortunately, that
algorithm is not supported by all authentication layers.

Be aware that due to this change, only the plaintext authentication mechanisms (PLAIN, LOGIN) are now supported by the
servers (SMTP-SASL, IMAP/POP3). This is due to the fact that non-plaintext authentication mechanisms require either a
cleartext password or a password hash that belongs to the choosen authentication mechanism. To mitigate problems with
cleartext passwords that are sent during authentification processes, it is recommended to use SSL/TLS connections only.

**WARNING:** You must not forget to inform your customers about this change. Mail clients configured to use
authentication mechanisms other than PLAIN and LOGIN will fail.

#### Ftp user passwords

The cleartext password related column (rawpasswd) has been removed from the i-MSCP database.

#### Panel user passwords

Panel user passwords are now hashed using the bcrypt algorithm. Previously, this was either md5-crypt, sha256-crypt or
sha512-crypt, depending on the system capabilities. The update is fully automatic. The password hashes are updated on
next successfull login.

Be aware that for safety reasons, the hashes created manually in database using the MD5() function are no longer
accepted by the i-MSCP control panel. If you need to put a password hash manually in the database, you must generate it
using the bcrypt algorithm. For instance, you could use an online bcrypt generator such as: http://www.bcrypt-generator.com/

#### SQL user passwords

The cleartext password related column (sqlu_pass) has been removed from the i-MSCP database.

### IP addresses management
 
IP addresses that are added via the i-MSCP control panel are now added into the network interface configuration file.
Doing this allow us to no longer depend on the MySQL server when the server is rebooted (the possibility of the MySQL
server being unavailable for unknown reasons), and also, this provides a better integration with the system. To resume,
IP addresses are now configured using interface definitions in the network interface configuration file, instead of being
configured on the fly using data pulled from the i-MSCP database.
 
IP addresses are added in the network interface file using aliased (virtual) interfaces. Those types of interfaces have
names of the form interface:integer. To avoid collisions with manually configured interfaces, i-MSCP uses integers
starting at 1000. Thus, any IP addresses added through the i-MSCP control panel will have an entry such as:
 
```
# i-MSCP [eth0:1002] entry BEGIN
auto eth0:1002
eth0:1002 inet static
        address <IP>
        netmask 255.255.255.255
# i-MSCP [eth0:1002] entry ENDING
```
 
#### IP addresses manually configured
 
IP addresses that are already present in the network interface configuration file can also be added in the i-MSCP control
panel for use with i-MSCP. In such case, i-MSCP simply skip the configuration step for them. In other words, i-MSCP
doesn't manage those IP addresses.

Be aware that IP addresses which are not present in the network interface configuration file will be added by i-MSCP,
using virtual interfaces. If you want to avoid this, you must add them in your network interface configuration file,
even if that is not really needed due to your environment (e.g: LXC containers).

#### Netmask, Broadcast and Gateway
 
At this time, it's still not possible to setup the netmask, the broadcast and the gateway through the i-MSCP control
panel. This is a feature that will be implemented in a near future. However you should note that both options, the
broadcast and the gateway, are normally not needed when configuring virtual interfaces.

### Ftpd server implementations

This new version introduce the support for VsFTPd (Very Secure FTP Daemon) server that can be used as alternative to the
ProFTPD server.

Be aware that even if we made many tests, VsFTPd support is still experimental.

### Services

### imscp_mountall service

This new service allows to mount i-MSCP filesystems when the server is rebooted. This service reads the entries in a
fstab-like file located at /etc/imscp/mounts/mounts.conf, and processes them. Unlike the entries that are added in the
system fstab file, the entries added in this file are processed in sequential order.

Plugins or listeners which want add entries in that file must use the API provided by the iMSCP::Mount library.

### imscp_network service

This service, which was responsible to configure IP addresses on the fly and set iptables rules for the traffic logger,
has been removed.

### imscp_traffic service

This new service sets iptables rules for the traffic logger when the server is rebooted.

### Shared subtree (homedir)

Customer's home directories are now automatically remounted on themselves as shared subtree. Doing this allows the
third-party softwares, such as the InstantSSH plugin, to replicate those subtrees where they want, such as in a jailed
environment. Then, a directory that is mounted later on in a shared subtree, such as an httpd log folder, will be
automatically propagated in the replicated subtree.

For more information about this feature, you can consult:

```
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/filesystems/sharedsubtree.txt
```

### SMTP authentication

SMTP authentication is now processed through the saslauthd authentication server which is part of the Cyrus SASL
implementation, and PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules Library). Previously the SQL auxprop plugin was used but that
plugin don't support encrypted passwords.

### Software installer

Because the software installer component is not longer maintained by his author, and because most of available packages
are outdated or even broken, it has been removed for safety reasons. A new implementation based on APS Standard will be
available soon.
